README.md, before:

# 👩🏽‍💻 Monica M. Wilson — Data Science Portfolio

Welcome! 👋 I’m **Dr. Monica M. Wilson**, a business professor and consultant expanding into **data science and machine learning**.  
This portfolio documents my journey in coding, data analysis, and applied ML — connecting **real-world business problems** to **practical, data-driven solutions**.

---

## 🔥 About Me
- 🎓 Doctor of Business Administration (DBA), MBA, MSIS  
- 👩🏽‍🏫 Adjunct Faculty of Business | Adjunct Dissertation Committee Member | Executive Director | Published Author | Business Consultant  
- 💡 Passionate about **teaching, analytics, and transforming raw data into insights**  
- ⚙️ Skills: Python, Pandas, SQL, scikit-learn, Streamlit, data visualization  

---

## 📂 Featured Projects

- **[01 — Data Cleaning & EDA](01-data-cleaning-eda/README.md)**  
  Exploratory data analysis & cleaning on sample datasets  

- **[02 — SQL Analytics](02-sql-analytics/README.md)**  
  Business questions answered with SQL queries & reports  

- **[03 — Machine Learning Classifier](03-ml-classifier/README.md)**  
  Binary classification (Logistic Regression & Decision Tree) with evaluation metrics & visuals  

- **[04 — NLP](04-nlp/README.md)**  
  Natural language processing (sentiment analysis & text classification)  

- **[05 — Dashboard](05-dashboard/README.md)**  
  Interactive Streamlit dashboard for KPIs & insights  

---

## 📊 Spotlighted Case Studies

### 1) SQL Analytics — Dummy Orders Database
I built a SQLite database and ran queries to answer business questions.  

**Skills:** SQL, SQLite, Python, Pandas, Matplotlib  
**Highlights:**
- Identified top customers by total spend  
- Charted monthly revenue trends  

**Visuals:**  
![Monthly Revenue](02-sql-analytics/reports/monthly_revenue.png)  
![Top Customers](02-sql-analytics/reports/top_customers.png)  

---

### 2) Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) — Tips Dataset
Explored restaurant tipping behavior and summarized insights.  

**Skills:** Python, Pandas, Matplotlib  
**Highlights:**
- Total bill amounts are right-skewed (a few high checks)  
- Average tips are higher on weekends  
- Tip size rises with total bill (positive relationship)  

---

## 🚀 How to Run Projects
Clone the repo, create a virtual environment, and install requirements:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/monicawilsonwork-max/data-science-portfolio.git
cd data-science-portfolio
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate   # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

Commit message:

Added job-aligned focus section to README

README.md, after:

# 👩🏽‍💻 Monica M. Wilson — Data Science Portfolio

Welcome! 👋 I’m **Dr. Monica M. Wilson**, a business professor and consultant expanding into **data science and machine learning**.  
This portfolio documents my journey in coding, data analysis, and applied ML — connecting **real-world business problems** to **practical, data-driven solutions**.

---

## 🔥 About Me
- 🎓 Doctor of Business Administration (DBA), MBA, MSIS  
- 👩🏽‍🏫 Adjunct Faculty of Business | Adjunct Dissertation Committee Member | Executive Director | Published Author | Business Consultant  
- 💡 Passionate about **teaching, analytics, and transforming raw data into insights**  
- ⚙️ Skills: Python, Pandas, SQL, scikit-learn, Streamlit, data visualization  

---
## Job-Aligned Focus
This portfolio highlights **AI evaluation, benchmarking, dataset validation, and structured feedback**:
- Review and refine **AI-generated code, prompts, and responses**
- Validate **algorithmic accuracy and soundness**
- Run **benchmarking** with clear metrics and comparisons
- Perform **data wrangling/quality checks** and document assumptions
- Communicate **structured, business-ready feedback** with visuals and KPIs

See featured projects below for concrete examples mapped to these tasks.

## 📂 Featured Projects

- **[01 — Data Cleaning & EDA](01-data-cleaning-eda/README.md)**  
  Exploratory data analysis & cleaning on sample datasets  

- **[02 — SQL Analytics](02-sql-analytics/README.md)**  
  Business questions answered with SQL queries & reports  

- **[03 — Machine Learning Classifier](03-ml-classifier/README.md)**  
  Binary classification (Logistic Regression & Decision Tree) with evaluation metrics & visuals  

- **[04 — NLP](04-nlp/README.md)**  
  Natural language processing (sentiment analysis & text classification)  

- **[05 — Dashboard](05-dashboard/README.md)**  
  Interactive Streamlit dashboard for KPIs & insights  

---

## 📊 Spotlighted Case Studies

### 1) SQL Analytics — Dummy Orders Database
I built a SQLite database and ran queries to answer business questions.  

**Skills:** SQL, SQLite, Python, Pandas, Matplotlib  
**Highlights:**
- Identified top customers by total spend  
- Charted monthly revenue trends  

**Visuals:**  
![Monthly Revenue](02-sql-analytics/reports/monthly_revenue.png)  
![Top Customers](02-sql-analytics/reports/top_customers.png)  

---

### 2) Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) — Tips Dataset
Explored restaurant tipping behavior and summarized insights.  

**Skills:** Python, Pandas, Matplotlib  
**Highlights:**
- Total bill amounts are right-skewed (a few high checks)  
- Average tips are higher on weekends  
- Tip size rises with total bill (positive relationship)  

---

## 🚀 How to Run Projects
Clone the repo, create a virtual environment, and install requirements:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/monicawilsonwork-max/data-science-portfolio.git
cd data-science-portfolio
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate   # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
